README.md, before:

## Moving Object Detection using OpenCV

A real-time moving object detection system that identifies motion through a webcam feed using OpenCV and background frame differencing.

---

### About the Project

This project demonstrates a basic computer vision–based moving object detection system.  
It captures live video from a webcam, compares each frame with a reference frame, and detects motion by identifying changes between frames. Detected moving objects are highlighted with bounding boxes in real time.

---

### Features

- Real-time motion detection using webcam  
- Background frame differencing technique  
- Contour-based moving object detection  
- Bounding box visualization for detected motion  
- Lightweight and fast execution  

---

### Technologies Used

- Python  
- OpenCV  
- NumPy  
- Imutils  

---

### How to Run

1. Run the moving object detection script:
   ```bash
   python main.py
2. Press r to stop the camera feed and exit the program.

---

### Working Principle

- Capture the first frame as background reference  
- Convert frames to grayscale and apply Gaussian blur  
- Compute absolute difference between frames  
- Apply thresholding and dilation  
- Detect contours representing moving objects  

---

### Applications

- Motion detection systems  
- Security and surveillance  
- Smart camera systems  
- Smart camera applications  
- Learning computer vision fundamentals  

---

### Output

- Real-time detection of moving objects  
- Moving objects highlighted with bounding boxes  

---

Commit message:

Update README with project structure and formatting fix
Added project folder structure and corrected formatting.

README.md, after:

## Moving Object Detection using OpenCV

A real-time moving object detection system that identifies motion through a webcam feed using OpenCV and background frame differencing.

---

### About the Project

This project demonstrates a basic computer vision–based moving object detection system.  
It captures live video from a webcam, compares each frame with a reference frame, and detects motion by identifying changes between frames. Detected moving objects are highlighted with bounding boxes in real time.

---

### Features

- Real-time motion detection using webcam  
- Background frame differencing technique  
- Contour-based moving object detection  
- Bounding box visualization for detected motion  
- Lightweight and fast execution  

---

### Technologies Used

- Python  
- OpenCV  
- NumPy  
- Imutils  

---

### How to Run

1. Run the moving object detection script:
   ```bash
   python main.py
2. Press 'r' to stop the camera feed and exit the program.

---

### Project Folder Structure

moving-object-detection-opencv/
│
├── main.py                 # Main script for moving object detection
├── README.md               # Project documentation
├── requirements.txt        # Required Python libraries
├── assets/                 # Sample outputs and images
│   ├── output1.png
│   └── output2.png
│
└── .gitignore              # Files and folders to ignore in Git

---

### Working Principle

- Capture the first frame as background reference  
- Convert frames to grayscale and apply Gaussian blur  
- Compute absolute difference between frames  
- Apply thresholding and dilation  
- Detect contours representing moving objects  

---

### Applications

- Motion detection systems  
- Security and surveillance  
- Smart camera systems  
- Smart camera applications  
- Learning computer vision fundamentals  

---

### Output

- Real-time detection of moving objects  
- Moving objects highlighted with bounding boxes  

---

### License

This project is intended for educational purposes.
